---
layout: post
title: "CA4FS - 2013-2016"
tag: [yield trials, maize yield, soil treatments, weather, ACT]
category: [ Kenya, Laikipia, Machakos ]
---

{% include _toc.html %}
{% include JB/setup %}


## Description
---
The African Conservation Tillage Network (ACT) is a Pan-African not-for-profit organization that has evolved into a neutral platform stimulating, facilitating and challenging for mutual sharing of information and knowledge on experiences or lessons on promotion of conservation agriculture. ACT brings together stakeholders and players who are dedicated to improving agricultural productivity through sustainable utilization of natural resources of land and water in Africa’s farming systems. 
The thrust of ACT is to add value through strategic partnership in the identification, adaptation and scaling up of conservation agriculture principles and practices. ACT in partnership with KALRO and the Ministry of Agriculture are implementing the project funded by AGRA (Alliance for Green Revolution in Africa) titled “Conservation Agriculture for Food Security and Profitability” (CA4FS) purposed to enhance adoption of conservation agriculture (CA) as a sustainable option for meeting the rising food demands in the county. 

The project objectives are to (i) evaluate and identify cover crop options for conservation agriculture; (ii) increase awareness of conservation agriculture among smallholder farmers in Machakos and Laikipia counties of Kenya through wide scale CA demonstrations; (iii) Improve access to information and communication products on conservation agriculture for practitioners and policy makers and (iv) Improve smallholder farmers’ access to input and output markets. 

The project will use the Mother-Baby trial design (Snapp et al., 1999). In Mother-Baby Trial Design, The “mother” trials, numbering 30, will test the full set of all the SIX (6) CA treatments, while the “baby” trials (the 200 demonstration plots) test a sub-set of two or fewer technologies, plus one control.The design will make it possible to collect quantitative data from “mother” trials (researcher designed and farmer managed) and to systematically crosscheck them with “baby” trials on a similar theme that are managed by farmers. 

Mother trials, with the 6 treatments, will be replicated 3 times in each of the Machakos and Laikipia sub-counties to allow collection of biophysical and socio-economic data. The demo-trials will serve as learning sites for the CA and other ISFM technologies and agronomic management of cereals and grain legumes included in the project. The mother trials will demonstrate CA and ISFM practices for improving the productivity of these target crops.

### Location / Time Coverage
Country: Kenya  
Time Frame: September 2014 - March 2015

### Citation / Source
Saidi Mkomwa, Simon Lugandu, Josiah Gitari, Peter Kuria, Boniface Njenga, Innocent Musumbi, 2014, CA4FS - Machakos and Laikipia Counties

## Methodology
----
Sampling Procedure:

Mother demos: Ministry of Agriculture-provided list of groups working on agricultural activities per county. The project randomly selected groups working in 5 subcounties of Laikipia and Machakos, with selected locations spread evenly among the five subcounties. Target was 6 demos per subcounty.

Sampling of baby demos was also randomly selected from the same list, the baby demo farmers then chose their own 3 treatments to use. Mother and baby demos conducted concurrently.

Treatments randomized in terms of placement on the plot.

Sample Size:

- Mother demos: 30 (some failed due to frost etc.)
- Baby demos: 200

Weighting:
N/A

## Data Policy
----
*Access Authority*: 
Saidi Mkomwa, Email: saidi.mkomwa@act-africa.org

*Contacts*:
Simon Lugandu, Josiah Gitari, Peter Kuria

*Confidentiality*: 
This is private data 

*Access Conditions*:  
This data is currently restricted and not available for public view until further notice.

*Citation Requirement*:  
We would like to acknowledge that we used CA4FS dataset for this study. CA4FS was implemented through the support of AGRA (Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa) under the leadership of the African Conservation Tillage Network (ACT)

*Right & Disclaimer*: 
NA


## Other Information
----
aWhere has taken some data cleaning steps to make this data available in the  [Dev aWhere platform](http://apps.awhere.com/ "Dev aWhere"). 

### Data Cleaning
The original dataset consisted of three files of data and a separate list of latitude and longitude coordinates. aWhere has matched the coordinates to trial site farmers in the final data uploaded to the platform.

aWhere has also assigned an ID to each farmer but has not anonymized them as this dataset is not yet intended for public distribution. 

Finally, aWhere pulled weather data from its own database of daily, 9x9 km global gridded weather information for all trial farmers in the mother demos. This data was aggregated to weeks starting with the planting date for each trial farmer and uploaded along with the ACT trials data under a folder labeled "c. Weather Data". Weather data was not pulled for the baby demo trial farmers due to the lack of specific planting date information.  

### Relevant Papers
NA

### Papers That Cite this Data Set
NA
